Hi and welcome to this week's Stellar Developer Meeting. Today I'm going to talk about quickstart. So what is quickstart? Well, quickart is a local Stellar network environment. So quickart is a docker image, that bundles Stellar core with horizon RPC friendbot and a database. And quick start can run locally as either mainnet, testnet, futurenet or or a customizable local network. Quick start is great for developers who want to test smart contracts, experiment with the Stellar network, and learn about Stellar's features in a control environment. And I can tell you, that SDF engineers use quickart quite a bit. There are two different operational modes. There's ephemeral mode, that cleans the database and start up with a default config at each startup. And. Then
there's persistent mode, that mounts a volume on your local machine and persist the database and the configurations. It's very easy to set up quick start. All you need is Stellar CLI and Docker installed on your local machine. And then you can use the CLI command Stellar network container start to set up quick start on your local machine. In this case, we use a command to set it up as test net. And. When the quick start is set up, you can access test net with these settings. After this presentation, I'm going to give a quick intro to how to actually use it in practice. And two ways to use it is to use Stellar Lab. You can connect Stellar Lab to quick start or you can deploy a smart contract and you deploy it just like
you're used to. First, you set up in this case we use the hello world. You set up the smart contract, you create an identity and you build the contract. And. Then you deploy the smart contract. But instead of deploying it to the test net or mainnet or future net you deploy it to your local quick start environment. In this case we use the local host as the RPC URL to tell Stellar contract deploy command, that we want to deploy it onto quick start. And once deployed we can invoke the smart contract just like we're used to. When we have deployed it to test net or mainnet. I want to put a little bit of focus on the documentation here. If you want to know more in details how quickart works and how to set it up, you can go to our documentation, go to tools and go to quick
start. Here you'll find all the relevant information you will need. You can read about how to get it set up, the network modes, how to work the friendbot faucet, how to debug, and do some advanced settings, that I'm not going to cover in this presentation. But let's try to to set it presentation. But let's try to set it up on my local machine. Okay. So here we have the terminal. First. If you remember, we can use a command from the Stellar CLI to set up up our our quick start. And in this case, I
want to use a testnet. And I just name this quick start mainnet. And, that was it. Now the quick start is up and running on my local system. So let's go ahead and build a smart contract. Actually we'll use the hello world example. And. Then we will need a user. Let's call this a different name, that I have not used before. Call it Frank. And. Now
let's. Now let's build the contract. Okay, the hello world smart contract is. Now built, and now we want to deploy it onto quick start. As mentioned before, we can here
see, that instead of deploying it to the actual test net or mainnet, we specify the RPC URL here and we use the the local host / RPC and the rest is as we usually use. When we deploy to test net. Okay. So now we actually have the hello world smart contract deployed to quick quick start. Next, what we want to do is to try to invoke it and let's use the contract ID was given us here.
and it was successful. So as you can see here once we have set up quick start we can deploy our smart contracts to quick start and run it locally instead of running it on the test net or the mainnet the public ones and it works exactly the same same way. Now let's try to connect Stellar Lab instead of using the the terminal I have still a lab in this window. And
the way you connect it to your your quick start is you go up to the network selector here and instead of test net here you choose custom. I have already tried this. So these fields are already populated. But the quick start URLs are localhost at port 8000/ RPC for the RPC and Horizon is just the local host at port 8000. And the network phrase is the same as. If we were using the public test net. So let's switch to the custom network. So. Now Stellar Lab is connected to our quick quick start and we can do everything we usually do. When we're connected to either test net or mainnet or future net. Let's just try to generate a key pair and we can fund it with
friendbot. So this works exactly like. If you were connected to a test net. One thing to notice here is, that usually. If you use testnet net you will get a link to StellarExpert. So you can go and take a look at at your user account there. Obviously we can't do, that. Because our cell explorer is not looking at our local quick start. But otherwise it works exactly like. If we were working on the public test net. I hope this little introduction to quick start was useful. If you have any questions feel free to ask. You can ask in in Discord. I know there's a lot of quick start users in in as well. But hopefully this will give you an a a great tool to work with for these special requirements where maybe you want to use some locking.
There's some great locking features with quick start. So go explore it. Go take a look at the documentation and see how this can be useful for you. Thank you for joining.